because I've lived in so many different
cultures in so many different contexts
and I've had to move and relocate so
many times I've had the experience of
buying free weights and carrying them
back to my apartment many many times and
it seems like a shallow and yet profound
life lesson that some whenever you buy
free weights the best workout you'll
ever have is when you're carrying them
home because I've never owned a car so I
just bought i just bought 60 kilograms
yeah 30 kilograms in 30 kilograms of
free weights and had to carry them home
from the shop one in each hand walking
the whole way you get that weight
dragging on your shoulder oh it's a
great workout but probably I'll never
again get as much exercise out of those
free weights as I just had in buying
them dating them home I think when I was
last in Canada i had i had 45 i forget
what they were i had a couple weights
that were really heavy and i had to make
two trips you know I had to go Carrie
just one and then go back and carry just
the other um hope you guys aren't
getting too much noise pollution to the
window look I've been saying for years
and years and years a phrase I made up
although I think many other people have
said similar things progress is a matter
of perspective change is an objective
fact change is something we can measure
we can talk about it we can debate it
sure but the existence of change the
necessity have changed the factors
driving change and the results of change
are real objective effects progress like
beauty is in the eye of the beholder you
can actually see a lot of strange signs
of progress in looking at this pamphlet
this is a pro vegan propaganda pamphlet
that's distributed at some vegan
restaurants and other institutions here
in conveying in 2016 this is a very
useful form of activism the people who
made this pamphlet are definitely
activists partly because at the back of
the pamphlet it actually has listenings
the last few pages give you the
telephone numbers and addresses of vegan
restaurants neighborhood by neighborhood
also vegan grocery stores of ecological
agencies and charities this sort of
thing
um I've been involved with this sort of
movement before I was vegan back in 1998
1999 definitely 1999 you know ecology
issues like deforestation the Green
Party um yeah I think the same questions
I'm engaged with today I was definitely
already engaged with the 1999 and I have
seen the changes in both Western culture
and Asian culture in how these things
are addressed and thought about starting
with us right off the bat that the cover
you know the imagery they've chosen has
really changed the focus on ecology
ecology as being you know what's on the
cover the the you know destruction of
the urban environment the tox ification
of the the air we we breathe the water
we drink and so on and the depiction of
the earth as an increasingly red and
yellow globe the title for this they've
chosen is who wouldn't want health but
already you can see from the cover that
this isn't just about the health of your
body this is what the health of the
planet this is about the destruction of
our ecology and one of the most striking
changes is that you do eventually get
the corny photograph of Jesus and the
corny photograph of the Buddha sorry
[ __ ] it's a photograph of a painting I
don't want to mislead you guys this is
not actually a not a real photograph of
Jesus um you know and the attempt to
sort of construe that that veganism is
somehow connected to positively
connected to these these religions but
that appears on page 48 and page 49 of
this pamphlet is almost the last thing
before the listings at the very end of
the book I can tell you from experience
this type of vegan propaganda ecological
buganda 10 15 years ago this stuff Jesus
and the Buddha would have been page 1
that would have been the main point up
front and to be sure the agencies the
activists the political organizations
creating the stuff they would have
identified as Buddhists or with one of
the other new religious movements and
what have you so already there's a
change whether or not it's progress as a
matter of
there is a very real change when i look
at this pamphlet and compare it to even
within China within the Chinese culture
don't judge me try this country amongst
in Chinese civilization in this
atmosphere I can see very real change
between this and where we were at just
10 years ago now what do they lead with
if Jesus and the Buddha are buried
basically at the back of this pamphlet
what do you think is on page one protein
so as a list of different vegan foods so
I'm sure many of you can't read chinese
we can see there's a table or you may
not be able to read it this this tiny
scale a list of different vegan foods
how much protein and how much fat they
contain compared to meet and this very
much does reflect there's some other
detailed nutritional information right
up front first three pages are all
tables of nutrition facts very neatly
well presented information as you may
know black beans lead the table but
nobody in China eats black beans hung
black beans being much more impressive
than than tofu health concerns about
whether people can be vegan are
addressed in here but health ecology
environmental degradation first and
foremost and questions of animal ethics
and suffering are in here but the
religious or supernatural arguments is
pushed to the very back so yeah the
title is who wouldn't want health but of
course it's asking us much more than
that uh I've had a big impact on two of
my teachers so far a third teacher
already was vegan before I got here so i
didn't i didn't have such an invite her
back she know I'm lying i had an impact
in her in a different way so a third
teacher of mine who already was vegan
she watched my video on community with
the chinese translation and i think that
did make a big impact on her i already
had a video up talking about how with my
first teacher i communicated the concept
that veganism is not just a diet
veganism is a political struck
I compared that to the issue with
cigarette smoking the decision for one
person to quit smoking cigarettes maybe
just about health who would want health
right but the decision that we as a
culture as a society of the country that
we want to make progress towards having
zero smokers we want to eliminate this
from our culture from our civilization
that's something very different and it
inevitably involves political decisions
political struggles changes to laws etc
etc I had a second teacher here all
these are conversations in Chinese and
by the way my ability to speak Chinese
is level one um I had a second teacher
here who should quite young I think
she's 21 she was only my teacher for
about one week and she said to me in
this kind of high chirpy voice she put
on a sort of cute voice and she said
jokingly oh well um you know I eat meat
but I could never kill an animal she was
saying stuff like this and she was you
know trying to be to be cute about it um
and I said back in a very low voice very
slow pace and slow dark tone and is not
intentional or contrived i was speaking
very slowly and clearly because my
ability to speak chinese is so poor i
had to think through each word I was
saying with him but I said to her yeah
he could you kill animals every day
without even thinking about it everyone
who eats meat does and if you think you
couldn't kill an animal face to face
you're wrong you could do it the same
way you could kill a human being and she
was shocked at this and she insisted
that know that while she eats meat she
wouldn't possibly have the heart to
actually you know slaughter an animal
herself or kill a human being and again
I said to her in this very sort of slow
serious tone because I have to think
through each word I'm saying in Chinese
I'm speaking solely not making dramatic
pauses intentionally but you know I said
to were basically sure he could
everybody can everybody in this school
right now is a killer whether they know
it or not and if you study the political
history of China or you study the
political history of Cambodia or the
political history of canada or any other
country what you learn is as soon as
circumstances demanded people resort to
violence people kill other people with
no hesitation especially the people like
you who thought they never would are
never could do it I said every single
person in this school except me it's
killing animals on a daily basis without
giving it a second thought because there
is no way to eat meat without killing
animals um now again I did not think
these words would have a big impact on
her I was really just struggling to
communicate at all because I'm a student
I'm just learning Chinese figured out
that this actually quite a devastating
effect on her and you know I I didn't
mean to upset her it's interesting isn't
that kind of conversation it's not like
she's seeing slaughterhouse footage or
anything we're really just talking about
in the abstract but she said some more
things to me that day you know within
within the day not maybe at that moment
that really showed me that this this
conversation a huge impact on her and I
get my mother teacher that the first
teacher she had just never thought about
the fact that leather requires that you
kill em she'd never thought about it
she's she's smart too she's not idiot
she just she had encountered leather
only as a finished product and actually
that first teacher she never ate ate
eggs she had some kind of food allergies
does need eggs she had never thought
about what eggs are how they're made you
know whether or not yet what the
biological function of an egg egg she
was shocked when I explained to her that
you know eggs are actually for a chicken
to reproduce and this kind of thing
right
people who grow up in the city you can
be smart you can be brilliant first
issues excellent excellent teacher knows
a lot about the history of languages and
so on but she's never given this stuff
and he thought and you know I think that
second teacher in a very real sense had
never thought about now maybe she's used
that cute line before you know trying to
be cute and again she's 21 maybe every
other time she says oh I eat meat every
day but I could never kill an animal
there's this thing in a lot of cultures
Western culture Chinese culture if
someone is a good looking female where
people just don't take what they say
seriously even when really it's a very
serious matter it's very deadly serious
matters oh oh good for you aren't you
cute aren't you wonderful aren't you
bright aren't you charming and you know
I didn't respond by saying aren't you
branch chairman I responded by saying
people like you kill animals every day
and when the circumstance arises people
like you kill other human beings
absolutely no hesitation uh but the
question she came back to me with not
that day but the the in the days to
follow I think the very next day her
concern was what you see in the first
few pages here she was asking me
seriously about getting enough protein
in the vegan diet and for you know I
didn't say I thought she was joking or
something guy named dorney get the link
to door news channel blurred or knee has
a video talking about that about the
importance of not giving phony
nutritional advice as a vegan and one of
the things Doran he says in that video
is very true he says just because you've
heard the question a hundred times like
I've heard the question about protein a
hundred times that doesn't mean that the
person asking the question is being
insincere because they they haven't
asked it a hundred times and that was
really true of this teacher I figured
out after a few seconds but sort of in
disbelief like you really want to do the
protein thing and then I realize oh you
actually want to know about protein
content vegan food and so I did answer a
question verbally again I'm speaking
Chinese just not not really a language I
could speak as a wait a minute I went
back to my room I got a copy of this
exact pamphlet I brought it to run gave
it to her on a short of the table said
yeah you can look it up
um I also said you were verbally to be
honest I said I weigh 100 kilograms you
weigh only 50 kilograms I get enough
protein so I think you can get enough
protein instead but that's anyway that's
not the perfect answer the perfect
answer was what I did it was that I gave
her that that pamphlet so look guys
progress as matter of perspective
changes an objective fact he are things
better now than they were 10 years ago
are they better here in China are they
better in Scotland are they better in
Germany and so on I think we can all say
in some ways the veteran some ways
they're not i can definitely tell you
one of the things this pamphlet reflects
is a loss of optimism about the Buddhist
religion itself I can remember a time
when people were tremendously optimistic
that Buddhism was going to play a really
positive role in leading the world
towards a much more ecological future
that Buddhism was going to be a major
force especially here in Asia especially
in places like Taiwan China but even Sri
Lanka Thailand you name it that Buddhism
was going to be a powerful force for
ecology if not vegetarianism and
veganism specifically and this booklet I
think really reflects the failure of
Buddhism and that that optimism is now
dead and gone I know as you know I
myself also lost my optimism about
Buddhism for me personally I used to be
a scholar but it makes me very much
engaged those things that's why i can
say with such confidence I've seen
equivalent pamphlets Hong Kong Taiwan
here in China for many many many years I
but I even saw them back when I was
still in Canada because within the
Chinese Chinese diaspora and in Canada
Chinese minority in Canada would have
you things change one of the reasons why
things change what changes an objective
fact is often that they just can't stay
the same a lot of you watching this
video will think that the main thing on
my mind today today of all days is going
to be this bizarre demi-monde of vegan
gossip of people trying to make money by
making up stories about my private life
including the legal details of my
divorce case
or you know my alleged sex life my
relations with women or what have you
the sense and we don't know first of all
you know you may not believe it but i do
really laugh at that stuff to me that
stuff is hilarious and it's hilarious
almost all the time because i know
what's true and what's false event the
only time when it wasn't hilarious was
this situation where a friend of mine
was saying it so i assumed what he was
saying was true i assumed he knew what
he was talking about talked about that
recently on the internet but in all the
other cases i know that what these
people are saying about me is nonsense
so on the one hand i don't mind that
they're building a mythology around me
and on the other hand it's just silly
and i can laugh it off etc etc the sense
in which it is really sad and we have to
worry about how veganism is changing it
doesn't really have to do with me
personally it really has to do with the
future of the vegan movement I have no
doubt that this is just a phase yes
people are motivated by money they're
going to continue to move it about money
some things never to go never go out of
fashion like blue jeans i I don't I mean
if I know I'm famous for criticizing the
permanent vacation lifestyle I think
people will always need to go on
vacation there will always be people
making vacation videos if you want to do
a review of a restaurant or a resort or
a vacation destination great go ahead do
it there's a totally legitimate need for
that I think human beings always want to
find numbers the opposite sex sometimes
the same sex people want to find
somebody to love people want to find
somebody to admire people are interested
in human beauty and health so there will
always be people on the internet wearing
bikinis and presenting that aspect of
human nature i think you know again it's
not something that's going to go out of
style its essence is going to disappear
those aspects of veganism both digital
veganism and real political things
they're with us forever it's not going
to go away and i do see the positive
aspects of that as well as the negative
now there are other things that I'm
really concerned about being lacking
within veganism I've just now written a
children's book in both English and
Chinese actually wrote it first in
Chinese then translated it from Chinese
English a children's story book and I'm
going to talk to illustrators but
getting it Illustrated if you look
around more than zero but it's pretty
lame what's out there if you're a parent
who wants a storybook that reflects on
vegan themes vegan issues or the talks
with these things in a way that a child
might relate to and hopefully it's not
just propaganda you can't give this
stuff to kids all right um you're not
going to take your kids to watch the
letter has videos I hope but hey some
different strokes for different folks um
you know whether it's at that level of
education and outreach whether it's the
community organizations political
institutions would have you you know
I've always said my problem is not with
the shallowness of the shallow content
with the beaded which is here forever my
problem is with the lack of depth and
the deepest content there were lack of
robustness in those political
institutions those elements but I mean
you know the vegan drama thing or as it
pertains to myself personally it is
going to disappear because there's
there's nothing to say so some of you
may not have noticed is still now the
people who are trying to make money
gossiping about me they're recycling
things from four months ago that they
already know to be false so I mean
trying to treat it as if it's a new
scandal or new topic of interest more
than four months ago I already dealt
with a totally false idea that I was
trying to spark up a romance with a
particular sixteen-year-old here on
YouTube I think everyone sorry I could
say everyone knows it unless this is the
first video you've seen the people who
themselves are really maliciously
spreading this lie at this point all of
them know it because I already had a
video up addressing that before
durianrider was aware of it before
durianrider had tried to capitalize on a
try to use it to to slander me that
video you can check the stamp the video
is called fake diet real politics now I
made that video partly because the whole
thing was hilarious partly because
they're deeper and more interesting
political issues involved but the fact
that someone like Charles or like
durianrider the fact that somebody would
be today
trying to dig that up and use it again
against me well I mean whether it's to
hurt me whether it's with malice or
whether it's just to get attention just
to try to have a scandal when all of
that was already dealt with four months
ago and you know there were elements of
it that are amusing and we're talking
about four months ago that already shows
you that this can't last the this
situation has changed the stuff about my
divorce I already dealt with months and
months ago anyone who wants to know more
about my divorce it's boring really
nothing new has happened into my divorce
in three years there is no scandal there
is nothing exciting or new about I know
that whether or not you know it or
without you you know believe ridiculous
stories the meetup but another story but
the fact that this has already gotten
into an echo chamber this has already
gotten into relying on on the one hand
making up fiction complete lies and
recycling material from the past this
already shows you that it can't last uh
that things have to change because they
can't stay the same and that's a very
easy judgment to make because like I say
progress is a matter of perspective
changes the objective fact I didn't see
this change coming I wouldn't have
predicted this the fact that i can say
things have to change does not mean i
have any insight whatsoever in to what's
what's going to happen next what's
happening the future i can tell you what
i want i can tell you that i have a
dream and one of the reasons why this
doesn't depress me or upset me too much
is what you could basically call the
Donald Trump factor any scandal that I
have to deal with now is a scandal I
don't have to deal with five years from
now five years into the future and from
you know so Donald Trump very few of you
be old enough to remember that he had so
many sex scandals back in the 1980s I
think in the nineteen eighties a long
long long time ago his his love life
used to really be in the newspapers
today of course you know they're all
kinds of political controversies about
him but I don't see anyone saying that
he's discredited because of his
relationships back at that time all
those scandals were already dealt with
um you it bothers me it bothers me for
the same reason that I didn't like to
see durianrider drag the name of
veganism through the mud it bothers me
to see other people dragging the whole
vegan cause through the mud just for the
sake of short-term profit just for the
sake of a kind of notoriety and for a
few thousand dollars yes it's sad yes
it's exploitative in hip-hop terms its
people being a culture vulture it's
people trying to make money out of the
movement out of the subculture trying to
make money out of the culture and not
making a positive contribution so yes
it's sad and it's bad for veganism on
many levels but for me personally I've
already seen this effect like the first
time people made allegations that
there's something scandalous about my
divorce oh there's something scandalous
about my sex life now the first time
people kind of take it seriously but
there's a boy cries wolf effect at this
point nobody believes anything to
rewrite it says I feel yes yes
absolutely no credibility and when other
channels pick up his lies and recycle
them which is a large part of what
happens oh yeah you think I grew up a
millionaire you really
hey even if other channels say it as
soon as others find out that's the
source oh this is just rehashed from
during writer nobody takes it seriously
anymore so on that side there's a
there's a boy who cries wealth effect
and on my side like I say like Donald
Trump okay if I've got to deal with this
now let's do it because I don't want to
deal with the five years from now
whoever you are watching this look
yourself in the mirror really think
about it five years from now it's going
to be 2021 what are you doing in the
year 2000 21 I can tell you what I want
you to be doing I want you to making a
positive difference in this world as a
vegan by and for veganism maybe you're
going to have a full-time job that
leaves you very little time but I at
least want veganism to have a foundation
they have multiple foundations that are
more powerful and influential than petta
is today pedda People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals we should be able
to eclipse them we should be able to do
them I don't today we're more pathetic
than the Green Party and the Green Party
is pretty pathetic we should be able to
outdo the Green Party our message is
more important now and for the future
than Mothers Against Drunk Driving they
have a fabulous organization we should
outdo mothers against drunk driving and
then those of you who are going to be
too busy at a desk job or you know
saving the world in other ways you may
be finding a cure for cancer you may be
a scientist you may be an architect but
you may work behind the counter at
starbucks I may be working behind the
counter at starbucks believe me the
thoughts crossed my mind maybe an
overeducated starbucks employee it's
completely possible my future you may be
working on a submarine for the US Navy
whatever it is I hope at an absolute
minimum you can do something really
positive by being engaged with robust
foundations that are pursuing those
goals to the vegan cause and I mean
irony of ironies
oh man I just made a video on it that's
the that's the realest thing in the game
all right ultimately none of us are out
here debating our past history and
that's why I think we're open to someone
who's a former criminal someone who's a
former drug addict etc taking on a
leadership role something that's
happened more than once more than one a
former drug addict more than one former
convicted criminal has risen to
prominence here in veganism because
veganism ultimately really is about the
future and it's the future I want to
worry about and this whole channel is an
invitation to all of you I hope you'll
come along with me and join in the
worrying